The Cloud Keyframer	{#cloud_keyframer}
========

Updating
--------
Two instances of CloudKeyframer are stored in simul::clouds::Environment - one for 3D volumetric clouds and one for 2D high-altitude clouds.
As a keyframer, this class stores a list of keyframes; this list can be modified at runtime, or loaded from a sequence (see \ref sequencer).

The keyframes each have a \a time value, and the keyframer tracks a current time through these frames, interpolating properties as it does so, into a special keyframe.
You can be obtain a reference to this using \link simul::clouds::CloudKeyframer::GetInterpolatedKeyframe() GetInterpolatedKeyframe()\endlink.

The cloud keyframer is updated from \link simul::clouds::Environment Environment\endlink.

Some \link simul::clouds::CloudKeyframe cloud keyframe\endlink properties are used as per-keyframe values to generated the 3D or 2D cloud textures.
These textures are then interpolated for rendering:

- cloudiness
- distribution_base_layer
- distribution_transition
- upper_density
- cloud_height_km
- octaves
- persistence
- extinction
- diffusivity
- masks

Some are used as interpolated values per-frame when rendering, either to determine the geometry of the clouds:
- wind_speed
- wind_direction
- cloud_base_km
- cloud_height_km
- cloud_width_km
- offsetx
- offsety

or the visual cloud properties:

- direct_light
- indirect_light
- ambient_light
- light_asymmetry
- fractal_amplitude
- fractal_wavelength
- edge_sharpness
- churn
- base_noise_factor

While others are used to inform different parts of the rendering system:
- precipitation
- rain_to_snow
- lightning
- godray_strength

Fine Control
------------
The cloud shape can be controlled using the keyframe properties \link simul::clouds::CloudKeyframe::distribution_base_layer distribution_base_layer\endlink,
\link simul::clouds::CloudKeyframe::distribution_transition distribution_transition\endlink and
\link simul::clouds::CloudKeyframe::upper_density upper_density\endlink.

Local Cloud Cells
------------
\em Clouds can be positioned precisely using the masking feature of cloud keyframes.

To position clouds, disable horizontal wrapping and enable explicit offsets, so that the cloud volume can be positioned
per-keyframe:

	environment->cloudKeyframer->SetExplicitOffsets(true);
	environment->cloudKeyframer->GetCloudInterface()->SetWrap(false);

e.g. to position the fourth keyframe of the cloudKeyframer:

	simul::clouds::CloudKeyframe *K=environment->cloudKeyframer->GetKeyframe(3);
	K->offsetx=10000.f;
	K->offsety=10000.f;

Within the cloud volume, the \em masks determine where clouds are present at any horizontal position. 
Each keyframe has an optional list of masks, and each mask has an xy position, and a radius, in units where 1.0 is
the width of the volume. Each mask has a thickness, from 0 to 1.0, which acts as a multiplier to the local humidity (i.e. cloudiness).

The mask list is a \em map, with an integer key. For example, to modify keyframe K, we can create or change the mask with id 7:

	simul::clouds::Mask &M=K->masks[7];
	M.x=0.5f;
	M.y=0.6f;
	M.radius=0.3f;
	M.thickness=1.0f;

To remove a mask from a keyframe:

	K->masks.erase(7);

<hr>
Next: \ref rendering
