---
title: CloudKeyframe
layout: reference
weight: 0
---
struct CloudKeyframe
===

| Include: | Clouds/BaseGpuCloudGenerator.h |

The keyframe structure for clouds, used by simul::clouds::CloudKeyframer.
  

[simul::sky::BaseKeyframe](../sky/basekeyframe)

Functions
---

|  | [CloudKeyframe](#CloudKeyframe)() |
| vec2 | [GetPrecipitationCentreKm](#GetPrecipitationCentreKm)() |
| unsigned int | [GetPropertiesChecksum](#GetPropertiesChecksum)() |
| bool | [HasFloat](#HasFloat)(char name) |
| bool | [HasInt](#HasInt)(char name) |

The keyframe structure for clouds, used by simul::clouds::CloudKeyframer.
  


Base Classes
---
[simul::sky::BaseKeyframe](../sky/basekeyframe)

Functions
---

### <a name="CloudKeyframe"/> CloudKeyframe()
< Where rain/snow is found.

### <a name="GetPrecipitationCentreKm"/>vec2 GetPrecipitationCentreKm()
Depending on precipitationRegion.lockToClouds, precipitationRegion.CentreKm is either absolute or relative.
So this function is used to access the true centre position of the rain region.

### <a name="GetPropertiesChecksum"/>unsigned int GetPropertiesChecksum()
Check for properties that, if altered in the keyframe, would require regeneration of
the cloud volume:

### <a name="HasFloat"/>bool HasFloat(char name)
Return true if the keyframe has a float value with the given, case-insensitive, name; return false otherwise. 

The properties are:
        - cloudiness
        - distributionBaseLayer
        - distributionTransition
        - upperDensity
        - localDensity
        - windSpeed
        - windDirection
        - persistence
        - cloudBase
        - cloudHeight
        - precipitation
        - fractalAmplitude
        - edgeSharpness
        - churn
        - rainToSnow
        - precipitationWindEffect
        - diffusivity
        - max_density_gm3
        - cache_built
        - baseNoiseFactor
        - offsetx
        - offsety
        - rainCentreXKm
        - rainCentreYKm
        - rainRadiusKm
        - rainEffectStrength
        - simulation
        - worleyNoise
        - worleyScale


### <a name="HasInt"/>bool HasInt(char name)
Return true if the keyframer has an integer or true/false value with the given, case-insensitive, name; return false otherwise. 

- GridWidth
        - GridHeight
        - Use3DNoise
        - Wrap
        - NoiseResolution
        - OverrideWind
        - EdgeNoiseOctaves
        - EdgeNoiseFrequency
        - EdgeNoiseTextureSize
        - ExplicitOffsets
        - ShadowTextureSize
        - DefaultNumSlices
        - Visible
        - MeetHorizon


Fields
---

**cloudiness**  < The edge between zero and one. Small numbers give a sharp edge to the region.

**distribution_base_layer**  < The density of the cloud layer at this time.

**distribution_transition**  < Start of the transition from the cloud base to the upper cloud (0 to 1)

**upper_density**  < The transition from the cloud base to the upper cloud (0 to 1)

**wind_speed**  < The proportion of cloud density retained in the upper layer, above the distribution_transition.

**wind_direction**  < The wind speed in m/s

**cloud_base_km**  < The wind direction

**cloud_height_km**  < The base altitude of this cloud layer.

**cloud_width_km**  < The height of the cloud layer, above its base altitude.

**scale_km**  < The width of the cloud layer in km, or the repeat-length.

**octaves**  < For non-repeating clouds, the shape scale

**persistence**  < The number of noise octaves used to generate the clouds; default 3.

**fractal_amplitude**  < The fractal persistence for generating the clouds, default 0.45.

**edge_sharpness**  < The strength of the fractal edge effect.

**churn**  < The sharpness to be applied in rendering a the boundary.

**precipitation**  < The strength of the cloud edge churning effect - larger values for more turbulent clouds.

**rain_to_snow**  < The amount of rain/snow etc.

**diffusivity**  < If zero, precipitation is interpreted as rain. If one, it is snow.

**max_density_gm3**  < How much the edges of clouds should be diffused.

**base_noise_factor**  < Grams per cubic metre. Default is 0.5

**offsetKm**  < What proportion of noise is applied at the cloudbase, between 0 and 1.0.

**octaves_f**  < The calculated position offset of this keyframe due to the accumulation of wind motion (see \ref wind_speed and \ref wind_direction).

**simulation**  < Only used for interpolation - changes will be ignored. See \ref octaves.

**worley_noise**  < If 1.0, cloud volume is simulated. If 0.0, it is generated by fractal.

**worley_scale**  < How much Worley (cell) noise to apply in cloud generation.

**edge_worley_noise**  < Scale of the Worley noise. Will be locked to an integer if clouds are wrapping.

**origin**  < The strength of the fractal worley edge noise.

**precipitationRegion**  < Origin on the globe for this layer.
